---
name: HW8
tools: [Python, Altair, vega-lite]
image: assets/pngs/hw8-2.png
description: Interactive Plots for HW8 Project
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---

# HW8

For this assignment, we need to use Python, Altair, and Vegalite to create two visualizations of the same dataset. First, I imported related Python package. Then, I read and cleaned the data (replacing the missing values). A link to the dataset and a link to the Python notebook are both embedded in the bottons at the end of this page.

## Plot #1

The first plot I created is a bar chart visualizes the count of buildings under each "Agency Name”. Similar to HW7, I used a simple encoding scheme for this bar chart, with the x-axis encoding the agency names and the y-axis encoding the count of buildings. The bar mark is used to clearly show the different numbers of buildings for each agency. A color scheme is used to differentiate the selected bar from other unselected ones. A data transformation was performed to calculate the count of buildings under each agency, which involved grouping the dataset by agency name and counting the number of buildings for each group.

Beyond HW7, to enhance interactivity and provide more information, I added a selection feature to the bar chart. When we click on each bar, it will be highlightd in blue while others are still fade. Moreover, when a bar is selected, the exact count of buildings for that agency is displayed above the bar. This interaction allows users to select a specific agency and see additional information about it, which enhances the usability of the chart and makes it more engaging and informative for users.

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/plot1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

## Plot #2

In the second visualization, similar to HW7, I created a line chart to visualize the mean square footage of buildings constructed over the years and segmented it by their building status (abandon, in progress, in use). The x-axis represents the timeline and the y-axis represents the mean square footage for each year. A color encoding is used to assign a different color for each building status. Each line shows how the mean square footage has changed over time by different building ststus. A data transformation was performed to calculate the mean square footage for each year and each building status, which involved aggregating the square footage values for all buildings in the same year and status to calculate the mean values.

Beyond HW7, I also add interaction for this plot, which is a hover effect that enables displaying the specific mean square footage value for a given year and building status. This allows users to explore specific data points and gain insights into the mean square footage values over time and for different building statuses.

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/plot2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/jnaiman/online_cv_public/blob/main/python_notebooks/test_generate_plots.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

